[docs] Remove Appearance elements guide (#30343)
expo/expo: docs/pages/develop/user-interface/safe-areas.mdx

---
title: Safe areas
description: Learn how to add safe areas for screen components inside your Expo project.
---

import { Collapsible } from '~/ui/components/Collapsible';
import { ContentSpotlight } from '~/ui/components/ContentSpotlight';
import { Terminal, SnackInline } from '~/ui/components/Snippet';
import { Step } from '~/ui/components/Step';

> Creating a safe area ensures your app screen's content is positioned correctly. This means it doesn't get overlapped by notches, status bars, home indicators, and other interface elements. When the content gets overlapped, it gets concealed by these interface elements.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Creating a safe area ensures your app screen's content is positioned correctly relative to notches, status bars, home indicators, and other interface elements that are controlled by the operating system or part of the physical hardware. Without a safe area, these interface elements may conceal your app screen's content.
```
I think it's important to emphasize these are device/OS elements outside of the developer's control. Also, that your positioning could be 100% correct relative to itself.

Author: I don't think it's a doubt that the might be concealed by these interface elements. It's always the case. Can you also elaborate on what you mean by " that your positioning could be 100% correct relative to itself"?

> Here's an example of an app screen's content concealed by the status bar on Android. On iOS, the same content is concealed by rounded corners, notch, and the status bar.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Here's an example of an app screen's content being concealed by the status bar on Android. On iOS, the same content is concealed by rounded corners, notch, and the status bar.
```

```tsx app/_layout.tsx
import { SafeAreaProvider } from 'react-native-safe-area-context';

function RootLayout() {
  return (
    <SafeAreaProvider>
      <Stack>
        <Screen name="index" options={{ headerShown: false }} />
      </Stack>
    </SafeAreaProvider>
  );
}
```

> **Note:** In the above example, the `Stack` is wrapping one screen. Your project's root layout file may have more than one screen. The `index` screen is used here an example for a screen component.

</Step>

<Step label="2">

Use [`SafeAreaView`](https://github.com/th3rdwave/react-native-safe-area-context#safeareaview) to wrap the content of your screen's component. It is a regular `<View>` with the safe area insets applied as extra padding or margin.

```tsx app/index.tsx
import { Text } from 'react-native';
import { SafeAreaView } from 'react-native-safe-area-context';

export default function HomeScreen() {
  return (
    <SafeAreaView style={{ flex: 1 }}>
      <Text>Content is in safe area.</Text>
    </SafeAreaView>
  );
}
```

</Step>

## Alternate: `useSafeAreaInsets` hook

> Alternate to `SafeAreaView`, you can use [`useSafeAreaInsets`](https://github.com/th3rdwave/react-native-safe-area-context#usesafeareainsets) hook in your screen component. It gives direct access to the safe area insets. It offers more flexibility and gives you more control. You can apply padding for each edge using an inset from this hook directly to the `<View>`.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Instead of `SafeAreaView`, you can use the [`useSafeAreaInsets`](https://github.com/th3rdwave/react-native-safe-area-context#usesafeareainsets) hook in your screen component. This hook provides direct access to the safe area insets, which you can use to apply padding for each edge as an inline style on the `<View>`.
```

Author: The changes you're seeing here are outdated. This section was already updated. I've rebased the latest changes from the main it should reflect that now.
